These questions are the non-duplicates copied from:
http://www.w140.com/kurt/unixtests/

- What does it mean for a file to be "setuid?"

Binary files can have a "setuid" bit toggled that indicates whether the binary
is to be executed under the credentials of the file owner (commonly root).

- Completely explain the nine permissions bits on files.

Read, write, and execute permissions for (file's owning) user, (file's owning)
group, and other users.

- What happens when a new account is created?

A /home/user directory is created, an entry is added into /etc/passwd, the
encrypted password is added to /etc/shadow, and /etc/skel is copied to
/home/user.

- Is cron good for running a program once at some time in the future?  Why?

The at command is suited for singular execution in the future.  The cron
command is intended for automating tasks that need to be executed repeatedly.

- What information is contained on each non-comment line of the crontab file?

A collection of date/time flags (min, hour, day, month, week) and the command
to be executed.

- What must be done before files can be stored on a brand new hard disk?

Formatting, creation of partitions, and mounting.

- What is fsck?  When would you use it?  Why?

Filesystem check.  If a server is shut off while running, executing fsck will
check the partition entries in /etc/fstab for consistency.

- Explain the elevator algorithm and how it is used in UNIX.

This is a disk scheduling algorithm.  Unknown to me how it differs in Unix.

- What is virtual memory?

Virtual memory is a scheme for providing programs with an address space that,
to the program, appears as if it is the only program running on the machine.
The virtual memory can be mapped anywhere in physical memory, including paged
out to the disk.

- What is the benefit of having multiple swap disks?

Reduced access time when a lot of swap-heavy operations are being performed.

- What is an incremental backup?

A backup scheme where only changed files, blocks, or file fragments are copied.

- What does the UCB "dump" program do?

A backup utility on most Unix systems.  It is a block-level copy of specified
filesystems.

- Can "restore" bring back an individual file?

Yes.

- Many SAs keep their backup tapes on a shelf in the server room.  Is this
  smart?

No.  Storing backups in a different physical location, when possible, reduces
single points of failure.  Furthermore, tapes should be kept in a magnetically
shielded tape safe.

- What does it mean to "rotate" log files?

Log files are archived by date and a certain number of them are always kept.
Once this number is exceeded, the oldest archives are deleted.

- What does syslogd do?

Logs system messages.

- Describe applications of two separate syslog actions.

Outputting to the console; outputting to a file.

- What is the job of the kernel?

The kernel is the central component of operating systems.  Generally, it ties
together the software on the system with hardware devices.  In a monolithic
kernel architecture, it handles much more, like filesystems, memory management,
etc.

- What is the benefit of a modular kernel?

The ability to dynamically load kernel modules at runtime on an as-needed basis
and the ability to exclude modules not needed from occupying system memory.

- What is encapsulation?

Separating interface from implementation.

- What is the relationship between ethernet and IP?

Ethernet is a link-level protocol specific to a particular type of physical
network.  IP is a stateless network-level protocol, independent of how the
network is constructed.

- What is a port?  Does IP have ports?

Ports are a mapping between protocols and virtual data connections.  IP itself
does not provide ports, but transport-level protocols on top of IP (like UDP)
can have them.

- What is a netmask?

A bitmask that specifies the range upon which a subnet has valid IP addresses.

- What is NAT?

Network address translation.  A process for modifying packet headers to map
between different address spaces.

- What is the purpose of ARP?

Address resolution display.  Maps between IP addresses and ethernet addresses.

- What is the role of DHCP in PPP?

Assigns PPP clients network credentials.

- What information is contained in each non-comment line of the /etc/hosts
  file?

IP address, hostname, and alias.

- Describe the use of the "route" command and give an example.

Modifies the system routing tables.

route add 192.168.100.101 mask 255.255.255.0 192.168.1.1

- Why does /etc/resolv.conf specify nameservers by IP address instead of by
  name?

Because without a nameserver already specified, it may not be possible to
resolve the name of one.

- Does every TCP/IP-connected computer have a routing table or just routers?
  Why?

All do, since the TCP/IP stack requires default routes and a loopback
interface.

- To use a local IP router/gateway, do you need the router's IP#?  Explain.

Not if provided by DHCP, but otherwise yes.

- What is a routing protocol and what is its purpose?

A routing protocol controls the way routers communicate with each other.

- What is the principle behind distance-vector protocols?

Routers maintain a collection of known nodes and costs associated with them as
vectors.

- Routes often have "costs" associated with them.  What is meant by this?

The latency between routers.

- What is a link-state protocol and what is its advantage.

Each node maintains a map of the existing network from it's perspective and
determines where to route packets based on this.  This spreads out the shortest
path determination to each node in the path.

- How is multiple access controlled on Ethernet?

Channel sharing is controlled by carrier sense multiple access with collision
detection (CSMA/CD).

- What are two different kinds of media used for Ethernet?

Fibre and coax.

- What type of media does DSL use?

The telephone network.

- How does FDDI provide greater reliability than Ethernet?

FDDI contains a backup ring for redundancy.

- What is an Ethernet switch and how does it differ from a hub?

A hub connects a single network together, whereas a switch can do the same, but
is aware of ports, manages the MAC addresses of connected hosts, and can not
broadcast data to non-destination hosts.

- How is an Ethernet switch different from a router?

A switch can connect a single network or bridge two networks, whereas a router
connects two or more networks and typically provides the ability to determine
where to send a packet to reach its destination optimally.

- What is the benefit of using DNS instead of a /etc/hosts file?

The hosts file is static and on a per-machine basis, whereas DNS entries are
valid for any machine using that DNS server.

- What is a top-level domain?

The highest hierarchy in the domain name system.  It takes the form of the
suffix on the domain name, like .com, .org, etc.

- What is BIND?

A DNS server.

- What is a recursive nameserver and how does it answer a DNS query?

Recursive nameservers are a way for non-root nameservers to cache DNS
resolutions so that hostname lookups can be more efficient at the cost of
caching these redundantly.

- Illustrate the functions of the /etc/resolv.conf, /etc/nsswitch.conf, and
  /etc/hosts files by explaining what happens during a hostname lookup.

The hosts file is checked to see if there's a static definition of the hostname
for this server.  If not, the nameserver in resolv.conf is used to acquire its
IP address.  The various settings in nsswitch.conf are used to determine how
the nsdispatch routines are used.
  
- Compare FTP and NFS.  How are they similar?  How are they different?

Both are UDP protocols and stateless.  NFS integrates with the filesystem and
NFS paths can be mounted.

- Does root (UID=0) access files across NFS in the same way as other users?

Unknown to me, but I suspect not.

- What is meant by the statement that NFS is a "stateless" protocol?

The protocol operates over UDP.  No session information is maintained between
transactions.

- Give an example of a mount command for mounting a remote NFS directory.

mount remotebox:/usr/stuff /mnt/nfs

- What information in contained on each non-comment line of /etc/exports?

Local path, remote host allowed access, permission flags, and an option for not
allowing root to have write access.

- What is the difference between a hard mount and a soft mount in NFS?

Programs access resources on a soft mount will receive internal I/O errors when
they become unavailable.  With hard mounts, a console message occurs during
timeouts and infinite retries follow.

- What is a computer?

An object that executes algorithms

- What is hardware?

Physical components of a computer.

- What is software?

Instructions executable by a computer.

- What is an operating system?

A collection of software that manages the hardware resources of a computer.

- What is an interface?

A standard provided by software or hardware that can be interacted with,
typically providing some access to the resources controlled therein.

- How is a hacked computer different from one that hasn't been hacked?

Unintended or unauthorized access has occurred.

- What is a name?

A label representing an object or group of objects.

- Jane has UID 143.  John has UID 257.  Jane owns the file "janes_prog" and she
  makes it setuid.  John executes janes_prog.  What is the UID of the resulting
  process?  What is the UID of the parent of the resulting process?

143.  257.

- How would you set it up so that incoming mail for a particular user gets sent
  to some remote e-mail address?

Create a .forward file.

- Describe specifically two problems with the mbox mail storage scheme.

The mbox format stores all messages in ASCII, requiring attachments to be
encoded and de-encoded.  All messages are concatenated together, meaning
performance suffers linearly as the amount of messages increase.

- Explain how you can determine the route that an e-mail message took.

View the full email header and checked the Received field contents.

- Explain the role of IMAP.

IMAP is a protocol for email clients to access remote mail servers.

- When you send e-mail to jn@hlw.com, how does your system find the server's
  IP?

By hostname lookup.

- What is sendmail and what is it for?

sendmail is a mail transfer agent.  It receives and sends email messages.

- How can you determine detect whether packets are getting dropped by a router?

Using the ping utility.

- What does traceroute do and how does it work?

Outputs the route taken to a destination.  It uses the ICMP TIME_EXCEEDED
response to get info on intermediary hosts.

- What program can be used to list open TCP connections on a host?

netstat.

- What is tcpdump?  What does it do?  Give an example of when it would be
  useful.

tcpdump prints out contents of network packets that match the specified flags.
An example of its use would be to log data transmitted through a particular
port.
  
- Can netstat be used to examine the routing table?

Yes.

- What is the purpose of the /etc/shadow file and what problem does it solve?

It contains the encrypted password of users in /etc/passwd.  It prevents having
these in a world-readable file, which is vulnerable to dictionary attacks.

- How would you remotely detect what network services a machine provides?

Port scan.

- How would you remotely find out what operating system a machine is running?

nmap.

- Exactly how does the "crack" program work?

It's a dictionary attack on a collection of encrypted passwords.

- What does the TCP wrappers package do and how does it increase security?

Allows access control based on network credentials.

- How could you know whether your machine has been hacked?

Monitor network traffic, log exploit attempts, run OS-specific security scans,
and verify checksums of system utilities.

- What is the security risk posed by setuid programs?

setuid root programs could be vulnerable to buffer overflow attacks that could
execute arbitrary code under root credentials.  This is also true for programs
setuid as normal users.

- What aspects of standard UNIX file permissions cannot be represented using
  the access control matrix (ACL) concept?

Execute permissions and setuid.

- Does SSH rely on the remote client's IP address for authentication?

It can.

- How does a proxy firewall increase the security of the protected network?

By blocking all unneeded ports, thereby closing many attack vectors.

- Rick knows that Jane never lies.
  Jane knows that Mike never lies.
  Mike knows that Sara never lies.
  Jane tells Rick that Mike told her that Sara told him that her dog died.
  Should Rick believe the news?

Yes.

- How would you determine whether a server needs a faster CPU or more memory?

A utility like top displays the system load and the memory usage.  If the
system load is consistently high, CPU is a bottleneck.  If processes are
swapping constantly, memory is.

- How would you determine whether a server needs more memory or faster disks?

iostat can profile disk load.

- What is the difference between ps and top?

top is more of a system profiling utility that monitors overall performance in
real time.  ps generates a snapshot of processes at a specific point in time.

- What does iostat tell you?

Kernel I/O statistics.

- What does vmstat tell you?

Kernel statistics on virtual memory, disks, and CPU activity.
